so this is the Western Digital p50 game
drive now you might be thinking to
yourselves Eber what's so special about
this drive well it's one of the first
external SSDs to incorporate USB 3.2 gen
2 by 2 and I know that might confuse a
lot of people but it's simply the
fastest USB interface that's available
in the market
right now but before you go out and get
one of these new drives there are a few
things that you need to know about
because since it is using a new
interface we did run into a few issues
that are certainly a bit concerning so
let's talk about those and of course
talk about the drive itself right after
quick message for our sponsor the Razer
DeathAdder v2 the gaming icon that just
got upgraded with a lighter body
negligence sensor and optical switches
from maximum reliability and speed the
classic economic shape handles like no
other
find out why 10 million other users love
the Death Adder
down below alright so let's talk about
that USB 3.2 gen 2x2 interface at 20
gigabits per second I repeat 20 gigabits
per second it's double the speed
compared to a standard USB 3.0 gen 2
which is rated at 10 gigabits per second
now naturally with every new USB
interface is geared to be backwards
compatible so if you are running a
system with a 10 K bits per second port
or a 5 gamers per second port this Drive
should work just fine right now there
are a few AMD TX 40 motherboards that
support USB 3.0 gen 2 by 2 interface as
well as a few x-29 a motherboards but
unfortunately notebooks are completely
are the equations so if your main
primary machine is a laptop well you are
most likely not gonna have a 2x2 port
because it's it's such a brand-new
interface
gigabyte has also announced an add-in
card so from a speed perspective why
would you want something like a 3.2 gen
2x2 at 20 gigabits per second instead of
Thunderbolt 3 which gives twice as much
as bandwidth first of all Thunderbolt is
owned by Intel so what do you know
AMD boards certainly take a lot longer
to get certified with Thunderbolt 3
which is why we only have a few Indy
motherboards floating in the market
with that certification also Thunderball
three drives are just ridiculously
expensive I mean it just it's not even
funny compared to a standard USB
external drive so with that out of the
way let's quickly talk about the Western
Digital p50 so from the outside it looks
amazing I mean I love this matte black
finish but unfortunately it does show
fingerprints I also really like the font
choice engraved at the top it really
suits the design it's also super durable
as it comes with the shock resistance
certification all in all this is one of
the best if not the best looking
external drives that I've ever seen what
do you guys think Western Digital is
targeting the p50 and gamers and that
makes sense because with modern titles
like Red Dead Redemption 2 it can easily
eat up a hundred and twenty gigabytes on
your local disk so it's better to have
something like that on an external
storage solution because you can use it
on multiple computers and ideally this
is exactly what we were looking for
especially here in the office because
when we're doing benchmarking it's
easier for us to have our game libraries
on an external drive without having to
redownload all the files again for
console gamers the p50 is both Xbox one
and ps4 certified but all of this does
come at a cost as you can see compared
to some of the other gentle drives
available market you are paying a little
bit more but it's nor closer to the
accountable three tax that's involved in
some of the other drives that are
available in the market alright so I
think it's time to talk about some of
the issues that we encountered on the
p50 game drive from Western Digital we
encountered some of these problems as we
were using it on a regular basis so I'm
gonna invite Mike over to talk about
some of these issues in three two one
this you oh yes you you clap - that
afraid you gotta move I got a more
dammit no you're taking over the frame
alright so what are some of the issues
that we experienced with the p50 what's
yeah so for me this is probably one of
my most frustrating experiences
benchmarking a long long time the main
reason for that is the problems that we
found were so randomized but they only
came up when we were using it in its
native 20 gigabits per second well
that's true yeah now one of the things
that I noticed was that there was
transfer errors on random files for
example some video files transferred
totally
okay while others they went almost to
100% and then we started airing out on
the drive another thing that we noticed
is the steam library folder that we
wanted to transfer to the drive it never
got past like 10% it kept on airing out
at the same time every single time but
when we finally got that steam library
to transfer over the 10 gigabit per
second port mind you some games just
refused to load so sieve and Warhammer
they just aired out completely steam
crashed its steam crash on the other
hand grand theft auto and absolutely no
problems with that game none at all on
the blizzard side modern warfare went
off without a hitch as well so we have
no idea there's no rhyme or reason to
any of these problems it's so weird
another thing we noticed was drive speed
inconsistencies so the first time you
plug it in it runs at its full speed
then the next time you plug it in it
runs at a completely different speed
that's lower and then we had two replug
it in yeah and I mean I know what you
guys are typing on your keyboard right
now it is not due to our test system
because we had an insanely fast raid
array that was feeding this so it's not
I mean that would have been a bottle a
we're just gonna post a screenshot of
crystal diss mark on that raid array it
is insanely fast exactly so another
thing that we did is first of all we
reach out to Western Digital we reached
out to other all the motherboard vendors
and they said look there's all these
things that you can try and that's
exactly what what we did so we tried
changing motherboards we try changing
platforms cables we even have two of
these drives we picked up another one it
was the same thing over and over over
again I'm talking about fresh Windows
install old windows installed different
BIOS is absolutely everything we've been
testing this thing for better part of
two weeks now yeah the other thing that
we want to point out is that we're not
pointing the finger here at Western
Digital the one commonality between all
of this is the as media three-two
four-two controller that everybody is
using right now to power everything from
the next $2.99 system to the external
cards to the TRX 40 platform so again we
don't want to point fingers at either as
media or Western Digital but that is the
one commonality between all this so
hopefully as time goes on they're gonna
figure out these issues there's probably
some platform incompatible
so on Western Digital sparked and then
everybody else is it's very very hard to
diagnose this because it's so random I
mean heck we're ant crystal disk info
after this thing aired out and it didn't
pick up any errors and that's about the
first time that I seen a drive air out
and crystal disk info not pick up the
information so with that I think we're
gonna sort of move on to the benchmarks
starting off with synthetics it's pretty
obvious that when V West Nigel black d50
isn't having any problems it's
ridiculously fast
it's almost fast to a point where it
almost matches our go to Thunderbolt 3
Drive honestly we've seen a lot of
external USB drives over these years and
this is by far the fastest one by a long
shot
even if you don't have a 28 bits per
second port it's just as fast as the
SanDisk pro xstream SSD moving on to our
transfer tests here's where things start
to go wrong a full steam library
transfer as I mentioned earlier failed
every single time
sure it transferred over that 10
gigabits per second port but that's not
what I really wanted to test as for
gaming well it was pretty interesting
modern warfare shader loading usually
takes forever but there really wasn't
much difference between the external
drives the only true winner was that
corsair and GME SSD the same thing goes
for Warhammer 2 other than the fact that
the p50 couldn't actually load the game
when it was in gen 2x2 mode what about
SIF well the WD P 50 is fast as an
external drive but it could have been so
much better if the game would actually
load at that full speed finally there
was one game that performed without any
problems and that was Grand Theft Auto 5
we were finally able to see what this
thing could offer and it was pretty
amazing shaving off almost 10 seconds of
the same game loading time alright so
you've seen the numbers this drive is
fast when it's fast it's fast guys
exactly but I want to know I'm gonna end
this conclusion with a quick question
would you buy the P 50 right now no
because to me I actually prefer using
that rog ariane drive because that
enclosure itself is like $60 and it can
populate that with a traditional nvme
SSD which i'm sure you can find on sale
maybe Friday or anything and like you've
got yourself a really fast portable and
mrs. Dean not only that you can upgrade
it down the line so if you pick up a one
terabyte and eme drive you can swap it
out and bring it 4 terabyte drive if you
want to so user upgrade ability is
certainly there and that's what I love
about that rog ariane drive or just any
other external enclosure I'm gonna show
you I'm gonna say that I would buy it so
there's only a certain amount of time in
my belief until the issues are ironed
out either on as media side or the
motherboard vendor side and at that
point in time you're gonna have an
ultra-fast drive at the same time you
can pick it up right now and it would
still operate in that 10 gigabits per
second mode yeah and it's still one of
the fastest drives on the market right
now for the USB 3.2 interface on the
flip side I wouldn't need the proof that
the issues have been fixed that's true
you're basically paying for a future
tech that's built in that necessarily
isn't working but you're hoping that
will get solved in the future so that's
what I'm gonna draw the line thank you
so much for watching let us know what
you think about the Western Digital p50
we have two of these I have two of these
I don't know what you want to do with
with them but thank you so much for
watching
I'm Heber I'm Mike and I've been
frustrated at this thing for two weeks
but I'd still buy it
we'll see you in the next one guys